# cybernetic-organs-system
Student Name: Benjamin Gallegos
A futuristic company specializing in creating bio-compatible cybernetic organs for human augmentation and replacement. This project will require a deep understanding of object-oriented programming, data structures, and algorithms to simulate the complex interactions between biological and mechanical components.

Assignment 1c (09/03/2024): This system provides information on patients needing a cybernetic organs and the inventory the system can provide for the patients. The Inventory is matched against the CyberneticOrgan compatibility and the patients information is also logged in the system.
The classes we added are the CyberneticOrgan class, Patient class, and the OrganInventory class. 
The CyberneticOrgan class provides information on the Cybernetic Organ details such as model, id, the function, and its compatibility to the patient. The method getDetails() provides a "Getter" to the class on the information listed earlier. The method isCompatible() provides the information if an organ is compatible.
The Patient class holds information on the operating patient such as name, age, medical history, and installed organs. The method addOrgan() adds an organ to the installed organ field of a patient. The getPatientInfo() method provides the field information for the Patient.
The OrganInventory class holds information on the available organs and how they match against model numbers in the CyberneticOrgan class model field. Methods getOrgan() and addOrgan() adjust the contents of the inventory to match updated inventory.
Added new branch to repository of 'assignment-1c' for the new content of adding classes, fields and methods

Assignment 2 (09/10/2024): Additions with this assignment include refactoring of both the Patient class and the OrganInventoryClass to add arrays, ArrayLists, and sorting/searching methods for user use. The arrays and ArrayLists hold objects of the CyberneticOrgan class for details and lists. Edits made to CyberneticOrgan class were constructors, getters, and setters for use by other methods. Test input and output has been added to Main to show that all newly added methods are successful. 

Assignment 3 (09/17/2024): This assignment we are working on recursive methods for solving a problem. We added 3 new subclasses of CyberneticOrgan class and will run a recursive method that will determine how the several organs and their properties affect one another health. The program runs 100 times recursively calling the organ processing. The program ends when the health of the organs reaches 0 in a failure, or 100 in a success. Recursive call properly outputs the status of all organs.

Assignment 4 (09/24/2024): This assignment we are learning about sorting and searching algorithms and analyzing algorithms for time and space complexity. Note: this assignment still falls under Cybernetic Organ System, just not involving completely.
The two classes added are Sorting.java and Searching.java. Sorting.java class contains several methods such as bubbleSort, selectionSort, insertionSort, and mergeSort methods. Searching.java class contains both the sequentialSearch and binarySearch methods. The Main class is being updated to hold a test array of varying sizes and several static methods to utilize and measure the time of each sorting and search method call. The time complexity has been logged in a separate Excel file in this GitHub repository labeled as "Algorithm Analysis.xlsx". This analysis will show times on average of 10 times per algorithm at specifying array sizes and what Big O notation each algorithm falls under based on the data observed.

Assignment 5 (10/01/2024): This assignment we are working on algorithms like the built in collection.sort methods and comparing it to the algorithm of QuickSort on time complexity. The overall observation is that, although complex, the custom QuickSort method beats the built-in java method. The code builds an organ list and then compares/sorts the list by Name, Model, and then Compatibility. The list then exports to an empty .csv file in resources folder "sorted-organ-list.csv". *Note: in order for program to write to "sorted-organ-list.csv", recommended to empty out the "sorted-organ-list.csv" for output.

Assignment 6 (10/08/2024): This assignment we are working on the developing a compatibility matrix of the organs on inventory with the patient based on Blood Type, Weight, and HLA. The program will output a compatibility matrix of the organs against the prospective organ.

Assignment 7 (10/15/20224)